.TH somagic-extract-firmware "1" "March 2013" "somagic-extract-firmware 1.1" "Somagic EasyCAP"
.SH NAME
somagic-extract-firmware \- Extract the Somagic EasyCAP DC60 or Somagic EasyCAP002 firmware from a Windows driver file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B somagic-init
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIDRIVER_FILENAME\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Extracts the firmware for the Somagic EasyCAP from the Windows driver file named \fIDRIVER_FILENAME\fR, verifies its CRC32 signature, and writes it to a file.

Before running this program, use Wine or Windows to run "Setup.exe", which should be found in the "Drivers" directory of the EasyCAP installation CD.
This should create a driver file named either "SmiUsbGrabber3C.sys" or "SmiUsbGrabber3C.sys", located in either the "Program Files/Common Files/Somagic/SmiUsbGrabber3C/xp/" or "Program Files/Common Files/Somagic/SmiUsbGrabber3E/xp/" directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-firmware\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
Write to firmware file \fIFILENAME\fR.
The default filename is "/lib/firmware/somagic_firmware.bin".
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Selects verbose output.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Print program usage and example.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Print the program version, the program copyright, a list of authors, and a notice that there is no warranty.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The program exits with a status of zero on success.
A status of one will be returned if any errors were encountered.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsomagic-init\fR(1), \fBsomagic-capture\fR(1)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to the easycap-somagic-linux project on Google Project Hosting:
<http://code.google.com/p/easycap\-somagic\-linux/issues/list>
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jeffry Johnston <somagic@kidsquid.com>.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2011-2013 Jeffry Johnston.
License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

