.TH somagic-init "1" "February 2012" "somagic-init 1.1" "Somagic EasyCAP"
.SH NAME
somagic-init \- Upload firmware to initialize the Somagic EasyCAP DC60 or Somagic EasyCAP002
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B somagic-init
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Uploads the firmware for the Somagic chip, and reconnects the USB dongle with a new product ID.
This program must be run as root in order to interact with the USB capture device directly.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-firmware\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
Use \fIFILENAME\fR for firmware.
The default filename is "/lib/firmware/somagic_firmware.bin".
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Print program usage and example.
.TP
\fB\-\-skip-check\fR
To detect corrupt or incorrect firmware, the checksum of the firmware is normally compared against a list of checksums for known good firmware files.
Setting this option skips the validation check.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Print the program version, the program copyright, a list of authors, and a notice that there is no warranty.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The program exits with a status of zero on success.
A status of one will be returned if any errors were encountered.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsomagic-extract-firmware\fR(1), \fBsomagic-capture\fR(1)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to the easycap-somagic-linux project on Google Project Hosting:
<http://code.google.com/p/easycap\-somagic\-linux/issues/list>
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jeffry Johnston <somagic@kidsquid.com>.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2011, 2012 Tony Brown, Jeffry Johnston.
License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

