.TH somagic-capture "1" "March 2013" "somagic-capture 1.1" "Somagic EasyCAP"
.SH NAME
somagic-capture \- Perform video capture with the Somagic EasyCAP DC60, Somagic EasyCAP002, or EzCAP USB 2.0
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B somagic-capture
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Initializes the Somagic EasyCAP DC60, Somagic EasyCAP002, or EzCAP ESB 2.0 registers and performs video capture.
This program must be run as root in order to interact with the USB capture device directly.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-brightness\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
Luminance brightness control.
The brightness \fIVALUE\fR must be between 0 and 255, inclusive.
The default brightness is 128, which selects the ITU level.
.TS
allbox tab(;);
c c
n l.
\f(BIVALUE\fR;\fBBrightness\fR
255;Bright
149;NTSC-J
128;ITU level
0;Dark
.TE

.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-contrast\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
Luminance contrast control.
The contrast \fIVALUE\fR must be between -128 and 127, inclusive.
The default contrast is 71, which selects the ITU level.
.TS
allbox tab(;);
c c s
n n l.
\f(BIVALUE\fR;\fBContrast\fR
127;1.984375
72;1.125000;NTSC-J
71;1.109375;ITU level
64;1.000000
1;0.015625
0;0.000000;Luminance off
-64;-1.000000;Inverse luminance
-128;-2.000000;Inverse luminance
.TE

.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cvbs\fR
For the EasyCAP DC60 or EzCAP USB 2.0, use the CVBS (composite) input for video capture.
For the EasyCAP002, use the numbered inputs for video capture. Different devices seem to have different numbering schemes, so try each input in turn to determine which one is correct. 
This is the default.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-cvbs\-input\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
For the EasyCAP002 only. Select the numbered input to use.
Different devices seem to have different numbering schemes, so the numbering may not match your device. Try each input in turn to determine which one is correct. 
The default input is 3.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-frames\fR=\fICOUNT\fR
Maximum number of video frames to capture.
The default is -1, which allows unlimited frames.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Print program usage and examples.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hue\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
Hue phase in degrees.
The hue \fIVALUE\fR must be between -128 and 127, inclusive.
The default hue is 0.
.TS
allbox tab(;);
c c
n n.
\f(BIVALUE\fR;\fBPhase\fR
-128;-180.00000\(de
0;0.00000\(de
1;1.40635\(de
127;178.59375\(de
.TE

.TP
\fB\-\-iso-transfers\fR=\fICOUNT\fR
Number of concurrent iso transfers.
Selecting a higher value might help alleviate sync artifacts.
The default is 4.
.TP
\fB\-\-lum-aperture\fR=\fIMODE\fR
Luminance aperture factor.
The aperture factor \fIMODE\fR must be between 0 and 3, inclusive.
Increasing this value can increase perceived sharpness.
The default aperture factor is 1.
.TS
allbox tab(;);
c c
n n.
\f(BIMODE\fR;\fBAperture Factor\fR
0;0.00
1;0.25
2;0.50
3;1.00
.TE

.TP
\fB\-\-lum-prefilter\fR
Activate the luminance prefilter.
This is bypassed (not active) by default.
.TP
\fB\-\-luminance\fR=\fIMODE\fR
Luminance mode for the CVBS video input, selecting a center frequency in MHz.
Does not apply to the S-VIDEO video input.
The \fIMODE\fR must be between 0 and 3, inclusive.
Decreasing the MHz value can increase perceived sharpness.
The default is 0.
.TS
allbox tab(;);
c c
n n.
\f(BIMODE\fR;\fBCenter Frequency\fR
0;4.1 MHz
1;3.8 MHz
2;2.6 MHz
3;2.9 MHz
.TE

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-ntsc\fR
Decode the NTSC-M video standard, which is used in North America.
To decode the NTSC-J video standard, which is used in Japan, select \-n along with \-B 147 and \-C 72.
The internal vertical resolution is 525 lines. The output resolution is 720x480, which should be scaled to 720x540 for the correct aspect ratio of 4:3.
The output framerate is approximately 29.97 Hz, or 30/1.001 Hz exactly.
.TP
\fB\-\-ntsc\-4.43\-50\fR
Decode the NTSC-4.43 50 Hz video standard.
The internal vertical resolution is 525 lines. The output resolution is 720x480, which should be scaled to 720x540 for the correct aspect ratio of 4:3.
The output framerate is 25 Hz exactly.
.TP
\fB\-\-ntsc\-4.43\-60\fR
Decode the NTSC-4.43 60 Hz video standard.
The internal vertical resolution is 525 lines. The output resolution is 720x480, which should be scaled to 720x540 for the correct aspect ratio of 4:3.
The output framerate is approximately 29.97 Hz, or 30/1.001 Hz exactly.
.TP
\fB\-\-ntsc\-n\fR
Decode the NTSC-N video standard.
The internal vertical resolution is 625 lines. The output resolution is 720x576, which should be scaled to 720x540 for the correct aspect ratio of 4:3.
The output framerate is 25 Hz exactly.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pal\fR
Decode any of the PAL-B, PAL-G, PAL-H, PAL-I, or PAL-N video standards, which are used in many regions.
The internal vertical resolution is 625 lines. The output resolution is 720x576, which should be scaled to 720x540 for the correct aspect ratio of 4:3.
The output framerate is 25 Hz exactly.
This is the default.
.TP
\fB\-\-pal\-4.43\fR
Decode the PAL-4.43 video standard, also commonly known as PAL 60.
The internal vertical resolution is 525 lines. The output resolution is 720x480, which should be scaled to 720x540 for the correct aspect ratio of 4:3.
The output framerate is approximately 29.97 Hz, or 30/1.001 Hz exactly.
.TP
\fB\-\-pal\-m\fR
Decode the PAL-M video standard, which is used in Brazil.
The internal vertical resolution is 525 lines. The output resolution is 720x480, which should be scaled to 720x540 for the correct aspect ratio of 4:3.
The output framerate is approximately 29.97 Hz, or 30/1.001 Hz exactly.
.TP
\fB\-\-pal\-combination\-n\fR
Decode the PAL Combination-N video standard.
The internal vertical resolution is 625 lines. The output resolution is 720x576, which should be scaled to 720x540 for the correct aspect ratio of 4:3.
The output framerate is 25 Hz exactly.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-contrast\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
Chrominance saturation control.
The saturation \fIVALUE\fR must be between -128 and 127, inclusive.
The default saturation is 64, which selects the ITU level.
.TS
allbox tab(;);
c c s
n n l.
\f(BIVALUE\fR;\fBSaturation\fR
127;1.984375
64;1.000000;ITU level
1;0.015625
0;0.000000;Color off
-64;-1.000000;Inverse chrominance
-128;-2.000000;Inverse chrominance
.TE

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-s\-video\fR
Use the S-VIDEO input for video capture. Only available on EasyCAP DC60 and EzCAP USB 2.0.
.TP
\fB\-\-secam\fR
Decode the SECAM video standard.
The internal vertical resolution is 625 lines. The output resolution is 720x576, which should be scaled to 720x540 for the correct aspect ratio of 4:3.
The output framerate is 25 Hz exactly.
.TP
\fB\-\-sync\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
Sync algorithm. Selects the method used to decode the video and control information into frames of video.
The sync \fIVALUE\fR must be either 1 or 2.
The default is 2.
.TS
allbox tab(;);
c c
n l.
\f(BIVALUE\fR;\fBAlgorithm\fR
1;TB
2;MD
.TE

.TP
\fB\-\-test\-only\fR
Parses command-line options and performs capture setup, but does not initiate capture.
The purpose of this option is to allow scripts to determine whether capture should be possible.
.TP
\fB\-\-vo\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
Select a file (or pipe) to output raw UYVY video frames to.
The default is to output video to standard output rather than a file.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Print the program version, the program copyright, a list of authors, and a notice that there is no warranty.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The program exits with a status of zero on success.
A status of one will be returned if any errors were encountered.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.B Play PAL video from CVBS/composite input
.nf
somagic-capture | mplayer -vf yadif,screenshot -demuxer rawvideo -rawvideo "pal:format=uyvy:fps=25" -aspect 4:3 -
.fi
.PP
.B Play PAL video from S-VIDEO input
.nf
somagic-capture -s | mplayer -vf yadif,screenshot -demuxer rawvideo -rawvideo "pal:format=uyvy:fps=25" -aspect 4:3 -
.fi
.PP
.B Play PAL video from CVBS/composite with increased sharpness
.nf
somagic-capture --luminance=2 --lum-aperture=3 | mplayer -vf yadif,screenshot -demuxer rawvideo -rawvideo "pal:format=uyvy:fps=25" -aspect 4:3 -
.fi
.PP
.B Play NTSC video from CVBS/composite input
.nf
somagic-capture -n | mplayer -vf yadif,screenshot -demuxer rawvideo -rawvideo "ntsc:format=uyvy:fps=30000/1001" -aspect 4:3 -
.PP
.B Play NTSC video from S-VIDEO input
.nf
somagic-capture -n -s | mplayer -vf yadif,screenshot -demuxer rawvideo -rawvideo "ntsc:format=uyvy:fps=30000/1001" -aspect 4:3 -
.fi
.PP
.B Play NTSC video from CVBS/composite input with increased sharpness
.nf
somagic-capture -n --luminance=2 --lum-aperture=3 | mplayer -vf yadif,screenshot -demuxer rawvideo -rawvideo "ntsc:format=uyvy:fps=30000/1001" -aspect 4:3 -
.fi
.PP
.B Play NTSC video from CVBS/composite input with increased sharpness, using alternate sync algorithm
.nf
somagic-capture -n --luminance=2 --lum-aperture=3 --sync=1 | mplayer -vf yadif,screenshot -demuxer rawvideo -rawvideo "ntsc:format=uyvy:fps=30000/1001" -aspect 4:3 -
.fi
.PP
.B Play SECAM video from CVBS/composite input
.nf
somagic-capture --secam | mplayer -vf yadif,screenshot -demuxer rawvideo -rawvideo "pal:format=uyvy:fps=25" -aspect 4:3 -
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsomagic-extract-firmware\fR(1), \fBsomagic-init\fR(1)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to the easycap-somagic-linux project on Google Project Hosting:
<http://code.google.com/p/easycap\-somagic\-linux/issues/list>
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jeffry Johnston <somagic@kidsquid.com>.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2011-2013 Tony Brown, Michal Demin, Jeffry Johnston, Jon Arne Jørgensen.
License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

